e2e/test/docker/readme.md, before:

# Docker for WSL setup for local test

This script will setup docker images and run instances of these images to support E2E testing.

See [e2eTestsSetup.ps1](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/main/e2e/test/prerequisites/E2ETestsSetup/e2eTestsSetup.ps1) script for E2E test setup prerequisites.

- Open powershell and run WSL and then run the script [docker-setup.sh](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/main/e2e/test/docker/docker-setup.sh) in <repo>/e2e/test/docker directory.

  ```Shell
  .\docker-setup.sh
  ```

- This script needs to run each time to setup and run docker images for e2e testing.

- This script needs to re-run after reboot or when the IP address of WSL host and container changes.

- There are IP addresses to host mapping that needs to copy to the host system /etc/hosts file (C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc\hosts)

## Common script issues

- If after running the script, the output does not show valid IP addresses for the hostnames, restart the PC and re-run this script

- If the docker instances exit immediately, restart the PC and re-run this script

Commit message:

Updated readme and comments based on PR comments

e2e/test/docker/readme.md, after:

# Docker for WSL setup for local test

This script will setup docker images and run instances of these images to support E2E testing.

See [e2eTestsSetup.ps1](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/main/e2e/test/prerequisites/E2ETestsSetup/e2eTestsSetup.ps1) script for E2E test setup prerequisites.

Before running docker-setup.sh script:

- Install WSL (See installation details here: https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/install). Reboot after install.

- Install Docker on WSL (For docker on Ubuntu, see installation details here: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/ubuntu/#install-using-the-repository, see installation details for other Linux distribution here: https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/). Reboot after install.
  
Running the docker-setup.sh script:

- Run wsl (See click on the linux distribution installed or open powershell and enter 'wsl')
  
- Change directory to the folder in the repo with the script [docker-setup.sh](https://github.com/Azure/azure-iot-sdk-csharp/blob/main/e2e/test/docker/docker-setup.sh)
  
  ```Shell
  cd <repo directory>/e2e/test/docker
  .\docker-setup.sh
  ```

- The script output a list of IPs to hosts mapping at completion, copy these entries to the host system /etc/hosts file (default in $Env:windir\System32\drivers\etc\hosts, not in WSL)

## Common script issues

- This script needs to run each time to setup docker instance with the updated network setup for e2e testing.

- This script needs to re-run after reboot or when the IP address of WSL host and container changes (WSL virtual network IP changes each time it starts).

- Update the host file in the host system where the E2E test code and IDE will run on (not WSL).

- If after running the script, the output does not show valid IP addresses for the hostnames, restart the PC and re-run this script

- If the docker instances exit immediately, restart the PC and re-run this script
